# DesignIdea
Rough Brainstorm:
It can be like flappy bird, but instead of having to press space to jump up repeatedly, you just hit the up arrow and down arrow to slide up and down the screen. The rest of the screen moves horizontally, so you are always moving forward, just like in flapppy bird. The icon will not be flappy bird but a nyan cat. As you move, you have to dodge obstacles just like in flappy bird, but also need to collect game tokens like coins. When you collide with the coins, your score increments, and so does the size of the nyan cat player. Of course, this would make navigating the pipe obstacles harder since there isn't as much leeway. After a certain threshold (when it is no longer feasible for cat to get through pipes at all), the nyan cat moves through a portal, taking it to the next stage. Think of flappy bird combined with geometry dash combined with subway surfers. However, that would be too easy: after every ten seconds, the map would flip upside down (so all the obstacles would be reversed), and you would have to quickly adjust to not hit anything. After collecting a bubble (appears on your screen like coins), your nyan cat can activate a shield for 3 seconds, which gives it the ability to pass through obstacles without dying. The shield can be activated by hitting the space bar and automatically deactivates after 3 seconds. You can still collect coins with the shield activated. If the cat hits the obstacle it dies instantly, but you are given the opportunity to restart from the beginning of whatever stage you are on without losing your coins three times. There will be nine levels total (because nine lives lmao). On the later levels, there may be harder obstacle, such as 'red zones', where you need to have your shield activated in order to survive. There may be other power-ups as well.

Introduction:** A brief overview of the application/game, its purpose, and its target audience.

This game is called "Hover Cat's Journey Around the World". It's a timeless game for all ages, for young children compteting to collect the most coins, to the elderly playing the game to see all the different cats. The player plays as Hover Cat, a curious floating cat who travels the world to collect coins and dodge obstacles with the power of bubble shields. It's purpose is not only to collect coins or see cute cats, but also educate the population about different environments around the world.

Value/Use:** A clear and explicit explanation of the value or use provided by the application/game.

The game is fun and very cute, since it has a flying cat (multiple flying cats, but you have to collect them with every level). It gives players the satisfication of collecting coins and using strategy to dodge obstacles, while also not being overly hard like flappy bird. There is a lot of leniency since you can restart pretty often, and the upbeat music makes it a all around relaxing game. I also wanted to add an education value to it, where each level scenery would depict some setting around the world (such as sand dunes, rainforest, etc). The purpose of this would to allow player to see different areas around the world with Hover Cat in a fun and engaging way. Especially for young children, who can use the game as a starting game to learn about different ecosystems.

User Interaction and Experience:** A description of how users will interact with the application/game and what their experience will be like.

The User plays as a pixelated cat character. When the game starts, the cat starts moving forward automatically. The goal is to use the up and down arrow keys to dodge obstacles, similar to flappy bird without the gravity aspect. Throughout the map, there will be coins scattered, which the cat collects by running into them, incrementing the score. With every coin collected, the cat grows in size, making it harder to navigate the obstacles. There will also be a few bubbles scattered randomly in the map. Colliding with a bubble equips the cat with a shield (not activated) that follows the cat. When the player wants to actually activate the shield, they press the space button, giving it the ability to pass through obstacles for three seconds. Only one shield can be equipped at one time. You can still collect coins when the shield is activated. After the cat has advanced far enough, the next level will automatically begin, with harder obstacles. The size of the cat resets to the original size at the start of each level. Once the cat hits an obstacle, it dies instantly, but the player has the option to restart the game from the beginning of their current level if they sacrifice a certain amount of coins. This can be done a maximum of nine times per player. There will be no point when it is physically not possible for the cat to pass through an obstacle.

Competitive Element:** Details on how the application/game facilitates competition among students.

Although the game is single-player, there certainly is a competitve aspect. Players can compete amongst each other to get the highest score (which is calculated by the amount of coins collected). They can also compete to see who can get to the highest level. With each level change, the cat avatar will look slightly different, similar to 2048 cupcakes. This way, players can try to collect more cats than the other person.

Engagement and Addictiveness Strategies:** An explanation of the features or strategies employed to make the application/game engaging and addictive.

The most important strategy is to make use of the bubble shields to be able to collect coins that are unreachable without one. This can be for some coins that are trapped inside of a cage-like obstacle. The goal, of course, is to get the most coins as possible, and there is no way to get all the coins without using the shields at all. The cat will also have to dodge obstacles quickly, employing quick fingers on the arrow keys. You will also have to look ahead to plan out your path, since the cat is always moving forward (like in geometry dash).

Scalability and Expansion:** A discussion of how the design allows for future growth and adoption beyond the initial homework assignment.

As stated earlier, there are levels to the game. With each level, the obstacles get harder and more frequent. However, the number of shields will also increase. I also plan on adding 'red zones' on later levels, which is basically areas of the map that you cannot traverse without activating a bubble shield. I haven't decided whether you die if you go into a red zone without a shield, or if you just continuously lose coins, decrementing your score and shrinking the cat. I was also thinking of adding more power-ups, such as the ability to equip more than one shield at a time (but not activate), or extending the shields' duration. Harder obstacles may include randomly falling things (which would be affected by gravity), or navigating a field of hovering asteroids. The scenery of each level should change significantly.

Accessibility and Inclusivity:** A section detailing how the design adheres to the California non-discrimination clause and ensures inclusivity for all potential users. 

This game is for everyone of all ages and genders. Because Hover-Cat is an alien cat from a world where gender and age do not exist (fourth dimension stuff idk), players can project themselves onto Hover-Cat however they want. I also plan on making the scenery backgorunds with enough textures so that the visually impaired can easily distinguish between patterns, but not too much so that people with sensitive eyes get sensory-overloaded. The red zones will also have some kind of flame pattern overlay, so that colorblind people can see them. The game will have sound effects, but they will be muted, and the music will be fun but not too intense so that people with epilipsy or sensitive senses in general can enjoy it as well. There won't be a lot of bright flashes or sudden movements, and the movement of game will be moderately slow to give people time to process. Since the only keys used in the game are the up arrow, down arrow, and space bar, it is pretty easily to play it, even for people with Parkinson's, since they don't need to hit a lot of keys continuously.
